Plans for the <https://github.com/creideiki/free-penguin> fork:

Documentation

Move pattern pieces onto separate A4 sheets, to avoid having to tape
papers together

Evaluate LibreOffice as a drawing tool, consider porting to Inkscape

Evaluate the wedge construction, consider changing to standard darts

Include seam allowance in pattern pieces

Investigate licensing. How does the pattern being GPL affect finished
plushies? Check how the 3D printing community does things.


Notes from my first attempt at sewing the v0.6 pattern:

Cutting pieces:

    The lack of precise seam allowances is annoying

Sewing bib to side:

    Clip the seam allowance in the side to allow it to stretch along
    the long belly curve

    There needs to be alignment points along the long belly curve

    There is excess fabric in the bib by the cheeks. I ended up sewing
    a straight line from the corner of the beak to the corner of the
    chin, cutting off the cheek entirely.

    Sew with the bib facing upwards

    Consider making the bib a single piece

Sides:

    The curved wedges are a pain; use straight darts with the same
    endpoints instead

Attaching sides to bottom:

    Need aligment points. Match against darts in the sides and ends of
    side pieces.

    Side pieces need to be clipped in the seam allowance to follow the
    curves of the bottom piece. Mark this (under and just behind the
    foot attachment area, and in the back).

    Sew with the bottom piece facing downwards

Wings:

    Need alignment points

Beak:

    Mark opening

Feet:

    Alignment points

    Opening

Sewing sides together:

    Opening. Lower back.

    Sewing order. Black below bib, lower back up to opening, bib, head
    and upper back.

Stuffing:

    The standard pattern is huge, with a lot of dead space inside, so
    it requires a lot of stuffing. Consider shrinking the pattern so
    the side pieces fit comfortably on just two A4 pages.

Attaching beak, wings and feet:

    Do this before or after closing and stuffing the body? Before
    makes sewing easier, but after makes positioning easier. Beak has
    to be done after. Ended up doing everything after.

Finished appearance, compared to the original drawing of Tux:

    Eyes should be lower, lower edge cut off by the beak

    Body should be wider

    Neck should taper gently up to just below beak height


Notes from trying to redraw the pattern in Valentina
(http://valentinaproject.bitbucket.org/):

    Automatic seam allowance and piece layout would be awesome.

    Can't get automatic seam allowance to work.

    No freehand drawing - everything needs to be mathematically
    specified points. Makes placing embroidery for eyes and feet
    awkward. No tracing over bitmaps makes inputting foreign patterns
    tedious ruler and calculator work.

    Not able to specify points by arbitrary intersections, or arcs by
    points. Wedges require intersection between two arcs, which is
    impossible. Arcs can be segmented, but only by length, not
    angle. Making them straight darts instead would mean the
    intersection is between arc and line, which is supported, but then
    there is no way to have the arcs end at the point (needs to be a
    specified angle).

    No ellipse drawing, so embroidery placements would have to be made
    up of several bézier curves.
